When we start the recording now I think so.
So, it's recording so welcome everybody.
Hello, everybody. Welcome.
Okay, we will start just now. A, I wanted to, to welcome everybody. And to say that the name of this panel is platform ization and the colonial elite.
Is there any chance, where we discuss the issue of platform ization and kind of culture from a Latin American perspective and the colonial thinking.
Usually the common trait of current platform culture is the maximization of profit by means of gathering data and attention, in order to capture more attention, and more that.
In this context, is there any space for pursuing artistic digital activism, and the colonial Elliot.
Okay, the presentations will try to answer these questions, even if in a provisional way.
People presenting here are learner so last, I will send birthday and I read on myself.
The panel will be Spanish, English based in a sort of tentative of linguistic decolonization of our own. It failed. Each one of us will have 10 minutes for presenting, and then we will open the discussion, but feel free to make comments or post questions
on the chat, and we will try to go back to them after the presentations. So, Leonardo you have the word.
Okay, thank you very much Claudia so as the official language is official is Spanglish, I will speak in Spanish, but they will show some slides in English those hopefully those of you who are not very proficient in Spanish will be able to follow through
anyway. So I will share my screen.
Here we are.
Okay.
So, he said upper corner reflects young. So really looking forward to that but the former internet and terminal interruption if the demo party or they want us to service your name, we're going to see you send your give me a sec avian flu sets up a lot
of technology, because we show him low privilege to in New York, Philadelphia photograph here is called them and they like amateur photos, because I know the secular para two separate center Su Su audio como una chica negra case will expand in Cancun
our control is illusory over by lava flow influence your Nadia, that fancy nano Paulo negra like to be like a hack explorer Islam any policy on this upon thoroughness.
Look, I mean, 30 cents or a total a level two revolutionary. Is it appropriate para para Tottenham program I can a pro POEKC program at amino Cancun two grand a bit of finito the possibility that its interest supposedly is alone as a matter of Allah,
your dress No no, but I to induce your frequent Alice coma facility that
it was him through Syriana, not permitted multinational program Allah para todo communist worth it by secular possibility I subtract or no okay no kombucha Simonton Yes, going soon as he does yoga Cassie etc because Indian this case you haven't seen before
so Sal welcome Moon is no Makkah Casa de vida Davina you know love spoon to Santa Rosa, lick his uncle, my directory Susana here minima sistema de says every other format is a photograph given command center to center at confident this momentum and of
solution areas like America a magnet fasteners came back in the lesson play pushy on this program. There was no one to sin embargo, and photographer for celibacy Leah hella para para proceed imaginary feces etc lists benefit assume kilocalories per VM
on the facility I said in an echo Blake Alou check on the left and this is inherent developer at OOVM focus on the PC let me data, no data no separate and away when a difficult journey media attack or local Chicago since this is really clever in a b2c
info scenario as leverage SM lucky good I can elaborate operators will axiom kilometer. look at the media manipulation of controls, but so they said no circus will never occurs when a little program Allah.
They say to us a local photographer.
they know when they were who got the manager consultant they control program Allah para coma Salomon clinic in America Angela Korean did the purple elevator is a possibility, this if I sat here was really is, you know, an f4 so anyway I know for a couple
It says, but I flew Sarah Leverton is who our controller para toes Hillary say no, please hit me in the Chicago City who don't you gotta kill foods you know you have to swear you're not critical to me in the corner for my liver.
This is a show it look it up I see now, no no production semi automatic Santa Maria co N as in Nancy Pelosi and then sound like on a libretto like emptiness in unbearable in Barcelona you see on the case with us as soon as important to Pacifica para to
be a super fancy ACCION okay go 13 years will you add a tab that says my bicycle video marketing give those include two or three people have you heard of that.
And the macula and remember where the Nevada Integra consistently here on the left possibly that I can also phrase it when a burrito then throw super gamma kind of the kindness he was often he is in place he does it say will normally do at Unilever third
He produced the movie sample Mr Saturday, whenever that critical ecosystem brown bear upon empathy on me mass This is de Ma sha know them through them by Sofia, Bulgaria breathalyse to see no k como hackers the gamma, instead of an emotional system I
is like a flu seminar proponent will call us when I've been a frequent dad as well as the next day. See you later. Is it possible possibility that is.
mean Obama Wi Fi Calla former. They say by socket monta Mozilla but it
para semi custom courses is rooted in sir. No, sir. No, sir para todos see no mucho so two people is it them associates economical to dialectical philosophy cause that awareness interest in particular in the film and applicable only reflects your so the
letter format, the internet
In a customer letter format case on the Manila movie literal programmers, is it possible. Is it that not to run a weirdo segment is in yellow. People other participants Acciona yeah but it
In this one place I think about the open circle camp or the ball there, but get permission of courses, email address, okay no formal part or then so in that regard as a police it does in Okay, it says permitted by law materially sallow in that fast, the
supplied the former doses letter for Manhattan, it was a beta community positive of him Maximus SEO and the libertarian Integra on the remarkable you attack the alarmist, but can we deeply can hear the expressiveness English of a career in the system
at all tm Baka password for so initials will hate to hate to fundamental is alike in Mega doses service and a formula we simply press Enter know soon turrentine, we need to inform us Jonas ecommerce Allah he looking at who temporary shows gracious it
a positivity know beneficial.
no beneficial effects on the concern of their capacity. Here is a nap or medical freedom pedophile individually sell one of the most is that that failed syrup agassi Taman a person to continue to have my cell carcinoma to see their faces can hook a mass,
upload that took up to the McCormick the Apollo 13 car in Brooklyn a coffee Damasio on swatted and assembly so ketosis the maca with my perfect though.
The paucity work up to the illiteracy on CMT sued us.
Don't say this letter format is a separate pony, no intended to eat or blue students who hate to come to Darwin and sistema Palo Santo, ultimately sell.
Okay, so we're algorithmic come into progressively controller, a financial turmoil of the currency suitability unethical sorts of music in a salad yes you do do it so.
But can we wish to Integra sooner sistema or si el sistema practice okay the visa Integra soon as we were at that
particular and plus four level intelligence if a man, no concept of a director the alternate media, neither capacity reflect see.
I can do this letter format, you can do so well Peter can only positively then detach your policy Sherman look at the meters will create a manifest that's a config metal tm posters opinion as in depth as a senior sales loft and all the math no clue Taekwondo
candle KPMG while irrelevant and associate as those This is ok to Lucas we are designed as a team as a team a separate issue darker complex and was in Owatonna Patiala particular persona superficial and every Mikko.
see Timo go through a separate camera through the demo supernatural under the sun, they will democracy with entertainment industry needless
to say the platform I cannot recommend a VC will either dolla dolla dolla super fees here the fascists Korean but I know certain su Mundo persona risotto.
She know Lucy Caloris will show the mechanisms descended, but I mean what Impala salary macabre loose NSA show selected and cosmic cosmic mass, Illinois children accomplished here.
you know, what about really not performed unica, give me the element in a while you're going to see the Cassiopeia to the flu set of cancer that affects young put me in a project to save us so the only area that Amina Cyril Monaco most University of Florida
also crypto shack of the tweeter though and demand no in Paris yes will be sales decided perfect I'm into killing the recycling Dr. Solomon case you swear you don't need to the consistency so Leah was a replica.
And don't say this the CMO of collect data formats on Windows around the country my co founder and director at truly meant and official dishes have a mockery mostly creams, but our lady I guess one of the CMO Madeline MIMO on k mucho capital city of Chicago
in Africa thank you okay you know one more window, and also man have no soda DNA, but they want to see me enter in a new momentum and associate demos videos Hello differently with color okay oh not gonna say most, you know, in the names.
You know 10. Years later I will do the lottery ticket for my birthday.
know if this will point to make a trackway Well, you could ever do get a couple.
I love Monticello in Federico in the process here in Seattle, external program. So Cal Kula MBC will lead and opponents so let me know will win a battle.
And those is a total and utter Alyssa Alyssa para todos que no sooner serum bracket show before on this in yellow so you know capacity sells the most nobody to pursue career or as well instead of calling me directly ticket, you know, say, so make television
so programmer seen okay portfolio analysis of mechanical components in evidence your reflection so ratios that last one that says a lot of the dinner singular and plural critical Porter Porter assistance program when you were to sell them was deeply concerned
Liberty Integra Delta Matisse a co creator Suma knows. Yeah, they play they come possible Good evening cockiness and Sarah and booboo personally says you're perfect. If that man knows they know southeast us in three authors are real nega nega, you know
Nick What do you notice when we check it out is yes, good ask you, Leo. Thank you very much. Now it's the turn off I will think we have, you have set the theoretical framework for all of us.
So now I will think we'll continue with them.
So thank you, Leo for setting up.
Yes, the theoretical framework.
We had this plan to switch back and forth from Spanish to English so I had the burden of speaking in English, so I apologize in advance for that for my bit in English.
I have written short se which is available on the platform. If anyone is interested.
My English is much better in writing, and in speaking.
So, digging on from from Leo's abroad and losers idea, I will present some intuitions that we've been currently discussing between the four of us in several events and courses or scholarly and not so scholarly places we share it, so it seems that the
I just wanted to review the idea of let the phone yo which is a very common trope in Latin American literature.
With regards to the platforms, so I will just try to make a provocative an analogy, of course, is just sort of game, in order to think, the possibilities and try to think platforms as a form of land, only.
So, my intervention is called the country and the platform, taking home from rain Williams TechCrunch in the city, or the issue of nano phone via either no way this is not sharing the screen.
Okay. Yes.
So some basic assumptions on what digital literacy, digital culture is it before getting into elite.
First of all, what.
There are some assumptions, I would like to challenge.
First of all, that this is a literal digital culture is not a process of de materialisation, and we duty, but rather process of miniaturization and acceleration.
With that miniaturization, which takes place on servers, and on networks, makes way for large economies of scale, which are based on data collection and data processing.
These data collection is allowed by this infrastructure that I mentioned before, which operates according to standards standards are themselves a problem.
An epistemological problem worthy of attention.
I come, basically, from philosophy of technology and it is an important discussion going on on standards in philosophy.
And so, digital reproducibility of cultural forms which operates in this form of standards of digital standards, reduces cultural forms to unspecific forms of digital content, I will not get too much into these because I discussed it elsewhere.
But I'm just thinking critiquing here, the idea of convergence culture, by Jenkins which is very popular.
So, what has happened is that convergence content covered convergence culture has expanded the ideas of culture based on authorship and copyright.
presentation. That depends on the corporate control of huge collections of digitized and digital content, which create these lawyers economies of scale.
So, I in my request a quote, Please natural history, where he predicts the idea is one of the first and theoretical approaches to a critique of massive landowning or let the formula, which has characterized the history of Latin America.
Until now, it has been associated associated to extract the wisdom. And so I think it's a resumes it summarizes, many of the conflicts that underlie Latin American literature, and which are frequent when one studies Latin American literature.
But such conflicts were also present in English literature, as well as we bring on Williams book, the country the city which I quoted earlier suggests.
So, my thesis is now that since the phone yet still exists, of course. But also, now we are migrating to us a new landscape where there is an another form of London which is none of them.
So, what are the roots of nano phone Yeah, I will. I would characterize use nano phone to characterize major cultural platforms.
The roots of the phone there are the illusion of the materialisation, which is actually as I said form of miniaturization.
The heads of democracies democratization and freedom of speech that end up in just being freedom of input as anyone who uses Facebook may very well know, the emergence of a new form of activism, which is known as extremism.
They alleged universal accessibility ending up in a form of stratified accesses, which scholarly journals, exemplify very clearly, but also all the forms of paywall and restricted surface access, and the siren chance of optimization and rationalization
which started in the late 70s, but with the neoliberal economy model of
taking over the, the economical rationality. In that in precarious labor or lean platforms, specific characteristic them, which are fueled by bike of Lord and collaborator on cars as an Uber or homes, as in Airbnb, or other forms of surplus extraction.
So, that is a, I think, a continuation of the concentration of land or property. If your hands.
And that concentration is characterized by form of a me
by the presence of the say fragile entities migrant entities, either be them workers, or a works in either form.
Extra activism also operates in the real world and it has effects on the real world. I heard some keynotes very, especially the keynote on read books, which took this impact into consideration.
And the, the extension of digital technologies, is also based on their orientation of the global south, which in the end, tense ends up being just google Western colonialism, in a new form.
So this modernization promises, end up being just what we always knew. Now, we will Cooper want cope with it, US Elon Musk's bluntly, puts it.
So, my question and I will be finishing with this is, is there possible to develop a geopolitics of illiterate or taking on from Jameson's idea of God.
And instead, geopolitical aesthetics.
So, my claim is that if there is to be a geopolitics of electronic literature, the struggles will be about national and regional digital infrastructures and the local regulations over, or trying to cope with the globalized attention economy.
The problem is about how much can we tolerate the expansion of cultural Napoleon. And I think it has a lot to say here because as Neil, put it, it's the place where things go beyond what they are programmed to be or might be.
So with an iron brave who will follow after me with
try to identify the specifics of
this kind of breaking the rules of the apparatus or opening the blood black box in the context of electronic literature and other forms of digital culture.
And we developed the concept, the concept of an address, which means making impossible, the algorithmic appropriation of works, or content or Well, they trying to prevent words from becoming near content.
So that this has been identified as a form of resistance, but also a form of creativity I think and I will get a little bit deeper on that.
And to close my presentation I would say that my intuition is that a literature is a fertile ground to the for developing other forms of digital culture.
Different. Sorry.
I wanted to avoid going over my time too much.
So, I was saying my intuition is that a literature is a fertile ground for developing forms of digital culture, other than platform capitalism towards a fair redistribution of digital space that is a politic and an aesthetic for the nano comments, as
to. Thank you very much.
So whoever has lived in Latin America will recognize probably this album.
And I will leave you with an eye.
Thank you. I will have been other fellow Umbra, and I are you there.
You can start now. Yes.
Okay.
And when a when a fabulous. Show me where the cool part about okay no way of letting letting the manual.
He Dumbo go, everybody own belief and I'll show you out of my own on on a person who has he given it and okay. Casey your man.
When we are that are they are the anatomy book coalition no para know pastor, Tim passing now.
It mean put up with them, because it's almost Sarah if he says oh no Sarah, I want to host I feel elite a Latino Americana.
In the fancy.
Let the former co CEO and run the head Carla Hillary will see on a simple assume the literature electronica se como lemme Malika to electronica forming them owner temporarily la Pacifica econ a sugar aunty Salah permanency a little slider.
Cassie como el foreshadowing guarantee sore throat area seminal they're
located quite a number of castles, a quantum minerals from the formula monetary sound.
The Lunar perfect you are no longer my bicycle or the feces telco Molly crew and re Taurus Johan UD Sally, sem buddy.
Let them know Dr Monte followed up are constantly our industry, vertical Latino Americans. If the quality IQ Allah, Allah is here for a problem. If the body actually see you to complete our own activity what he called the shuttle is a colonial k para
una cosa expressly on the other a law that they normally call invent and Iranian takeaway on them, they have Mandela, la casa de la in LA separate Cosima Cano Tina concept of a Kamala embrace it, but I could actually sell Hope it as soon as Nick aka when
setting that up.
You know perspective. If they take a political como para una de, and they own capital T Mobile to Allah Salah 50 and I've already Mika, they continue those the heat island where she throws a human the appropriate intellectually or where each of the outdoor
element to it and then he saw a low some part of a signal. So hope it is Jonah Henry last year, on a low latency on technical yesterday. If they see it a little bit as soon as that belief because you don't get better meet their own Electra single,
and some woman to Shama know amp then I love his own elected automatic on, and if the gossip in prayer in tantric if they don't, they don't want any of the concept of permaculture the quad core processor in the excessively he doesn't know so the main
in America the motto a walker is possibly problematic Sarah Cornell total architecture is a fullness or a lot of cheated out of em, but Betsy viola, the reference yeah really that no solo como Buddhists young that is resistance yes you know so it all
here for you.
here for you as a fighter been set up Ambien and let them put a leader in Latin soon multivitamins channel, can a Mondo processor cannot say about that, and associate with a law they have not received it, so you know might be in Korea, or a mentor that
that reference to really sad noise and don't say body acidic condition I mean dose. So you know chaotic annoy have a good luck on, they are gone trash is on a technical perception they cannot see me until they've been Semyon to implicate retainer listen
to hunted phenomenal either component and got the audio nearly the analysis, said no naka de de como se Tabasco para ser called Kira casa. Is it recently Romijn does all of instrumental can say one opponent in coil, in our case forgot most me a few months
younger de to look at locusts and artificial on Oh Sarah, who Tom in this area into Inz theoretically Terra Terra electronica Latino Americana come up while care costs are Latino American but a lot of white girl so we got an unsuitable on necessity.
So meter Primo either among the voice, or may horde under professional come in the Avalon see Mila official colonialists Montoya most important at sem buddy.
de de de de, then hopefully that will attend technica Sona gonna say same policy honest and lucky nobody ever only set up a question that a lot of reference to release us young DNA, como processor, our main momentous oh no I held around Bella Monica Hiroko
no See you, fellow through case and regimented tan difficile C'mon SRU is a liver coma, sir. Oliver noise rock on of para sauce. No, no problem.
Calhoun a fragment of a Sakura Monica via Aston's and to be doing a similar soon Karnataka constitution when appropriate that the reference yeah really accelerate Paula Tonto this automatic Xeloda in Algona picked up on this young seen attention, ISIS
no momentum incomplete. This is a wonder woman to the man that the importance young Quijano and but only I'm a priori case, saying that is because there's one in Latin soon.
K saying that is because there's one in Latin soon by Sarah Mottola fact England so hit okay awesome the position is a privilege to Komala nice dress, but we'll see just a little bit along the last he says hello up in sala de me and motivates and dances
and lab reports as Ben said I can't get in la semana para todo in total have new Alice quality will suddenly financial literacy courses.
And this is anti European Soca yeah he woke up already Mr Spencer C'mon record so the better so ck Sierra most again depends on the intermediate Konami goes, but you can only say sorry I meant to say three ocean in your niche ne ne ne lower so go on a
on a good unica a Sally okay a final blaster the axiom, they look a car camera most intimate clinical work on a one on concept Okay, kid. they finish university Malanga technological.
It's a pleasure the axiom NoSQL start time but Allah Allah, Allah the three courses you seen embargo this automatic. Okay, let me see the reference yeah really sir.
I see me move that ladder kill appropriate on the record so no see embryo casino.
Really nice automatic to him.
I want to see happy lesson dog. Sadie and dances Latif and you see on the left a glass, either llama yes you can also on impassive D related to the log see the logo Hoxie and it hasn't been Semyon to sue language.
it's a new car abundance. So this automatic Association Loki commanded the ineffective and angry last year, network unison contract a party to the eye.
They saw this automatic young guy really doesn't get a practical interest in getting started this yourself without insulting or angry was young collective for them of their senior moment so now I do awesome but it took a little electronica Latino Americana
electronica say cuz the Luba posterior in Franco.
This, but I'll start you. And then once the world will know Quito the VC VC cameo have any the head football Allah Allah, ma kk Sony and frequent the Hennessy family did argue if done a movie not really solid, you know, to see Themis Obama for castle,
and the senior partner whoever they will send in front of us young, etc.
I see como in social graph the corner historical a while. Yes, he como Natale Terra Terra terra cotta Yun of the language.
Nicola got me Guatemala consequences epistemological okay Lisa yes and no to that the to the artistic up we're sort of a positive dealing with traffic and other formats, you can be a lucky lucky lucky know voicera Solomon they are there are extremely
similar, was he on his see no I mean come we are live in EC honest.
After on the surface evenly amongst the power, a singer, entre Phoenix ultra proposals.
Technical technology, Connie Willis, Allah de forma Hello perfect Lisa Colm area that those are comparable to to host source income in either a solo Kamala Khan ideal leader for instrumental young fella technica Kayla finish the owner here, Monica.
Monica Vitaly colonial patriarchal imperiali.
They came on either the Buddha Lapeer the conservatories all that was a couple they settled remodel your feet tomorrow is thanks to the wind Dahlia Wallace, la forma require the drum for Melissa formats cannot stone solo formats.
Luther Horgan official lucky coordinator horizontal artificiality hotel and he goes, you know, Danny Sassoon associates. The Union contest is the CO constitution.
Now Western Central, it comes out of the game on a practical, they receive 10 sia Kip Allison said only, they see they see no already in total quantity volume high value knows when they need for yet because they see for them they need a practical assignments,
you'll find it on him a particular mentor, practical payments, you're not gonna love it I see it a practical, no Solomon database because painted of England at the moment, allow any sassy on your associate.
Then with us NC media. That's what I don't think that's the only,
which is yes and I thank you very much. And now it's my turn.
It's okay we are okay with the time I hope and we have several minutes to the open the discussion.
Okay, so my, I will share my screen here.
So, are you watching my screen,
but not in
Syria in Korea. Yeah. Okay.
So, I would focus. Okay, thank you very much. I will focus on Latin America and elite that particularly engaging because drafting the linking and disruptively occupying contemporary platform culture.
This is a short presentation so I will not develop my theoretical framework.
I would have been working with the theoretical framework.
That is part of the colonial thinking in the way Walter Mineola elaborated or even the epistemologies of the South coined by the term was coined by voluntourism so Santos, these authors do not necessarily refer to the colonization regarding digital culture,
but they certainly give us a point of departure, in terms of what the noise notion of the colonization means in order to not vandalize it or flatten.
I've already written published an NSA, er, earlier this year, and I will give you the link. If you want to read it.
But shortly. I will, how. Okay.
Here you have only a few quotes from them only from Mineola and an evil econo who media manuals, quoting also just in order to intro that this idea of the linking, which is the main idea I will try to post.
Now, the idea that we need.
Okay. He begins with an eye on it but anyway.
They do that we need the need for politically under disturbing the linking comes here to the fore, as do the colonizing knowledge and the colonial knowledge is as necessary steps to imagining and building democratic and non Imperial colonial society doesn't
know they do that, they did colonial, the colonial shift is a project of the linking in Spanish, the linking, in a way, it is Associate associated with this idea of econo they they spend their spirit of inclusiveness.
They'll Atlassian Allah, Masha Allah, Allah colonial era in America Armenian definitive icon total power capacity to either legacy to leave a sentence dividends, but given that this panel is like a mix in English and Spanish.
The stress I put here on Mineola choice of this particular verb in English is not without implications to the link.
In English, means to break the connection between something on something else.
But the noun and not to the delinquent also exist to refer to a person or maybe to qualify a behavior tending to commit crime particular myelogram in Spanish.
The thing is different because Spanish speaking people thought, kind of had to associate this English word to it's a disruption, like something that is out of law, meaning.
Since belling Gil in Spanish, only and only means to break the law.
So, it's like, we can, we hear that word in English, but we did codify this word in Spanish, changing the meaning then the main meaning the word has. And, as you may know what the Mineola is an Argentinian, who has been teaching in the United States since
the 80s. So, I think, this. panel.
I think he's also very aware of these nuances of the, of the world.
Okay.
As you see my approach.
Today is kind of a cultural and linguistic one. According to the title of my, my presentation that suggests that besides the linking.
We can also bond, the colonial thinking to a more activist way of conceiving that the colonial sheets in terms of occupying colonial spaces.
The idea of occupy the streets, of course, is behind this.
However, the similarities between occupying the streets and occupying digital platforms have its limit.
There's several similarities but there are differences I cannot go farther, but the potential empowerment of the people, and emancipator is social transformations that in certain circumstances, Mike derived from occupying streets are usually more tangible,
that the MC but the potentials that might derive from just occupying digital platforms, and I wanted to stress, just occupy and I have a Chilean example but I don't have time to everything Chilean it's something about this, but I don't have time to develop
it.
Anyway, my main argument.
build.
but that would not mean death to occupy the platforms as they are occupied the platforms means to be there. I know, but also to the link to deviate, and to open up ways of seeing and deal with what digital platforms culture means while we are there, and,
ultimately, it means to invent new platforms, and they structural base as well.
So, in regards to Latin American League. I think we can enumerate listed some, but also different differentiate some possible paths.
One of them would be a complete change regarding means of production.
But is there any chance for live to do something else. In the meantime, before, if ever, that change occur occurs.
The other way would be to explore experimental political digital literature. The keep the language is activism and sort of interventions, of the on the digital machine, as a whole or in part.
Third Level could be exploring the colonial discernment involved in experimental isn't, and even interventions in mainstream platform culture related to contemporary social media.
And the fourth level, could be digital activism in indigenous indigenous languages. I will only refer to the second and the third level of efficacy of these roads.
I'm thinking of levels because maybe the extreme efficacy would come if we, if we could change infrastructures, as I was didn't told us. But in the meantime, I will refer.
For example, to this second level of frequency, which is close to the first one.
And
I think we can find many, many examples in a Latin American elite of experimental political digital literature, some digital languages activism programming languages activism included and the elite that intervenes the digital machine as a whole or in
part.
I'm thinking here in elite works that not only the familiarize digital environments, and they are for dances, but the based on digital languages themselves, and even interrupt the digital apparatus, as a whole.
In Kenya Disraeli's well now works under the tag of algorithm, politics, such as that are the seven or email body naturally brasileira America naughty or Amazon or perhaps the more vivid examples, but also other words by the family, which clear intervene
in the realm of the means of production for into instance certain autonomous digital infrastructures, like, aka was he defines aka boss, as an open source mobile web platform for the collaborative creation of maps and community memories.
The same for environments with low or no connectivity.
Here you have an image of Amazon.
I think this work can give us some hints for these options within the second level of disruptive efficacy. Again, we have here at it with many nuances, Amazon for the Amazon rainforest in Brazil, which is being clear cut at the rate of three football
fields per minute, but also for one of the most symbolic global corporations, of these 21st century, which literally honoring its name began as a company devoted to the global online selling of printed books, using paper, of course, except product of
the same deforestation, a corporation that has diversified nowadays in huge proposed proportions into a universal production of digital audio visual content.
Every day, I go live and flow.
In other words, in other words, to make visible, the linking between all the components of the work called as a vector I'm quoting a vector that transforms your desires into that third capital son, and even fastest were men machines, Amazon, the default
work, work makes the city the code, leading us to do something else that clicking to execute it be just a small step in between.
The formula is station steps, and to their progress, a kinetic visual poetry in a time that visual poetry passion the words concept that links numbers algorithms capitalism and the tragedy of burning forest.
Ultimately, the destroying of life itself.
Okay. You can, of course, explore the world, and not wanting to extend on that. I think it would be worth it to pay attention, not now because I will run out of time but to pay attention to the hyperlink in the text in the work that leads to an estate
that statement by this early on code on coding.
A. He says that the code of amazon.ht ML is I'm quoting now is written in a compressed format, often called mini, mini, mini five, which makes it very difficult to read to convey the idea that the code of this piece was something condensed and obscure.
A. Okay, we could, we can discuss, if you want this work later.
A third level, the colonial that tournaments involved in experimental ism but also interventions in mainstream platform culture related to contemporary social media
lead us to this example, which is broken English, an online initiative identified itself as a free access digital publisher, they were founded in 2000, in 2016, in Mexico, by David Martinez, and Canada.
And I only told also bit festive resounds all along the side we can see these for instance, in the motto of broken English loudspeaker editorial punto, lol.
The one and only publishing house that LL.
We can easily associate the name of the name broken English with a D colonial Jester regarding regarding politics of languages,
because it's an online publishing publishing initiative in Spanish, that chooses to name itself, not in proper English but in broken English. This kind of kind of self reflection and estrangement from Mason digital culture also includes the addition of
a series of poetry books, and the remediation in the homepage of the Latin American inverted map, taken from net dot our Latino database. A well known pioneer net, our piece by Brian McCann in which there you are your net artist remediated the previously
well known growing American better theater, showing the mark of the map of South America upside down, down by the painter, hoping
that we can easily relate to the notion of a piece of technology of the sounds. But all these is interwoven in broken English with the purest language and raw material that shape nowadays, digital culture, since means, and bots have have a truly main
role in broken English. If we pay attention to the website visual interface, we get the same impression of fusion between experimentalism amazing digital culture, a fusion
that perhaps enables broken English to be something more than a reproductive commodity, while. Nevertheless, participating off a new generation of sensibility.
Their website homes, their website homepage chosen sort of 19th interface, black screen white, Korea, new front, but the hint that that's not all, is shown, both in the brilliant green twinkling letters with, which serve as hyperlinks.
And in the disruptive green reflection that regularly process the screen. When clicking in many of these links and explosion of colors, fonts comic like high stakes and call it, and colleges interface.
I do not have time, another very interesting example in broken English is a digital piece called a pompous Barona political moment notes, towards in mean means poetic by Chilean poet, Jonathan Oh Paso, which is also behind Kuma Tron and experimental but
we refrigerator, that releases a unit book of poetry in PDF, even with a unique design cover each time someone that says the site.
Ok, I will not refer develop this thing about this intermediate Eastside but I think it's a very interesting, so you can read about these in the article, I published, I referred before.
Finally, in my fourth level of secrecy draft. I will say that fourth level, which I do not have time here to develop to literally digital activism in indigenous languages.
Sometimes this activism.
Only occupies the platforms, using indigenous languages, but not the linking from Mason digital epistemologies. I do not know in Latin America, any project equivalent for instance, to john Corbett's languages Cree and ancestral code, which were referred
in another panel yesterday or I don't know. Remember when, but for sure they activate my land was in deaconess network has been growing during the last decade.
So, I.
Okay, that many things we could think about the level of decolonization implicating in activation in indigenous languages, and the level of not decolonization also implicated there, but I think I will not have time for that.
Finally, my conclusion provisionally is that one of these cases are strictly experimental elite based on the difficult this alien Doris or a sense of their colonial mixtures between experimentalism and third generation platform elite, or digital activism
in indigenous indigenous languages, there is an opening for discussing how it might temporarily occupy contemporary platforms, without being completely absorbed by the agenda.
So, I will stop share.
Now, and that's all of my presentation today, but we can open the discussion. I think that, theoretically, my co presenters have really a post very interesting questions and.
Okay. Some are there any thoughts in the chat, maybe.
Lil lil Flores wants to eat. Okay.
Let's see, I'm trying to read the room. Let's do it in English, since I know there that not everyone speaks Spanish. I want to congratulate late you all for for a great, great talk, a great set of talks.
I wanted to begin, just by just, I mean, I thought, no matter the layer.
My talk I made a really great theoretical framing of everything. And I think one of the questions I have is, and I can ask it in Spanish as well, is.
And I think Gloria begins to give the answer. So, this is a question that may go across several of you.
Where do you see the space for agency.
Right. Because I think we use platforms.
But we also have bro board right and we also want to transcend them.
So, where I mean, I think one of the dangers, is, is, is to presume that platforms, capture and have this power over, and they do they're designed to do that.
But where are the limits of that. And where's their space for agency necessity prophetic a travel calibre will cover it.
They lose where you're being so K, no software can offer mama Akiko Graca Dortmunder can offer mama Libra, a program income, we're not Casa de de la LASAT movement for no, a pair or attack a punto, but I don't.
is a career. But I think that layer so last also post that yeah yeah so I mean rich, both of you. Yeah.
But just elaborate right.
Okay, Leo so last. Um, yeah well it's very high the No, depression, about agency.
I will take it from the point of subjective experience, I think we have all lived this experience that we are scrolling through the endless stream of some social network.
And we are, we feel that we are capture, we feel that our attention is captured we feel that we have spent too much time already looking at stuff that is not actually relevant for us or is repetitive but somehow we are deprived of our willpower.
We have been our willpower has been replaced by an agency of the system.
So, at that moment, we are clearly optimized, we can we can find it as a feeling I think we all know.
And we also get bored at some point, maybe too late. We can extricate ourselves from that experience, and look at from a different point of view, and say, well that was too much.
I spent too much time on Twitter or Facebook. And at that point, solution set us free for what for what for something else. Go cooking, go for a run, read a book, whatever, which doesn't happen on the platform happens on the, on the rest of the world.
Now, us what to do was when when when we get rid of the ultimate ization of the system. While my proposal is expressed on the, on those three forms of freedom is that, well, we can still have a relationship with the ultimate icing system from a different
point of view, which is a critical point of view, which is a point of view that is meta is in another level. We are not inside the system, where we are kind of looking at it from a bow, trying to understand this logic and the act of understanding is logic
enables a series of new possibilities, is a different game. We are not playing the game of the system anymore we are playing our own game, about the system, because we can comment on it, we can make a network about it.
We can try to hack it, or whatever, which is not part of the original plan of the, of the signers of the system. So, that, that is engaging with the system still, but in a very different way with a very different attitude.
So, that will be my take on this difficult problem.
I can add another thing which I think it's more explicit on Latin American elite though its present in the other forms of elite come around, I'm not an as an expert as many people here I just I was sort of a tourist on elite and and i and i ended up in
in philosophy of technology, but he he low minutes, some of the more relevant issues for fighters with technology and philosophy of digital.
But I think that the the political dimension is more explicit on Latin American elite, because of their material limitations constraints, and needs of innovation or debate or questioning it's on the very nature of the Latin American elite I know.
So, yes, that.
Thank you for the lucky phone connection yeah but I think that I want to, I found it very interesting when Nick's LASIK post the thesis that the platform economy is just another step of copy that is mode of production.
So, you have for this and then you have autism, and now you have platform capitalism. And there is a continuing at and there is the the old good old struggle over surplus and the extraction surplus and the problem that he could pose the question of labor,
so it makes it possible to rethink us. Previous Latin American literature, made it possible to think it. Previous Latin American literature focused on the let the phone do, and the agrarian reform, and the primary session of economies, you know it's it's
a common trait in, in all the legendary conditions right now. So from the bottom up to a random set of areas to any all the Colombian literature or no audience yeah and so on.
You can trace this problem of land ownership and concentration. So, I would think that this.
The platform economy is another place that the illustrator may enable thinking alternative road so that the idea of the slave that we try to develop with an eye and it's still an ongoing project aims at this agency, the agency is in the moment of of escaping
the call.
But at the same time that also station is tactical in the sense that it prevents the extraction of surplus or the identification of people, or the policing, or whatever platform, a decision making automated decision making is running there, but at the
same time, it's a space for creativity, for new forms of
real or for new ways of relationship on different modes, less extra activist, less the violent modes of production, but it's just an intuition and of the answers the question though.
I think that a this notion of an address by addressing this reference yeah really fast young, and the idea of the linking and reinventing. A from the, from a basis of the linking
our products are productive I have ways of trying to, I don't know I was trying to think possibilities for a lead and i i agree with Justin that in Latin American elite.
There is stronger
bias towards politics Asian.
A in a geo political. I know, not so not only the geographical sense. But, for example, I've been working a lot of time, during a lot of time on a language geopolitics in Latin American elite, I think this thing is something that we should explore even
more. And not only from the perspective of languages as Spanish get to our support Echo, whatever, Portuguese, but programming languages as well. That's why I refer to that idea.
I'm not sure if there are any programming languages, developed in Latin American which engage with indigenous indigenous languages, for example, I don't know I really don't know but this is something that we should think not only in the relation between
the global not on the global south, but within the global sound, because Spanish and Portuguese are hegemonic languages in the region. So, we have also the or something.
would have said say, I think, is something that many elite, that is everywhere, but in Latin American in Latin America, it shows a bias on geopolitical questions and phone, maybe this is the way I don't know.
I tried to open possibilities.
Always knowing that within this possibilities. There are also the possibilities of being called.
I don't know if we knew English they work since the same called battle.
I think that we should be always aware that this possibility is always there. Because of that, usually experimental artists are always changing places, going farther, moving around, you know, because they experiment and political procedures.
Many times are co opted by the, the machine itself, the system itself as layout so last post the.
If you like.
I have a small case of what Leo was wondering, the within the platforms, regarding taste. I remember a poem by another Tara.
Tara never know how to pronounce his name, who support from from Argentina, that there was an illegal play police repression in the south overland ownership, know the communities were demanding world you're buying a land from a wealthy landowner and they
were being. I know this the verb in English that kicked out of the land. So in this context of violence, a young man, white European descent, young man, activists, that was there went missing.
He, he was found drowned in the river. Two months later. So there was a it was a motorist first disability seal, you know I said what the impact is so warm person in Argentina, which was some del mondo now.
And he posted there was a lot of questions to bring the government employee involved the government in providing answers as to where was this young man and he's born was the broken image in Facebook, you know the the icon where, where the victor is missing.
The text the caption of the picture would say in this place there should be the picture of a young man, and he described the very popular the the image that had been popularized by the family and the people that were requesting the Orient to look for
him.
And he described very politically his face, which was not there, as it wasn't on as he was missing in other time.
So that was in Facebook. So he was so subverting the Facebook main hit.
What made Facebook famous for that was showing pictures, you know, he was showing the non picture of this person that was missing. And that was just a very witty example of subversion within the platforms, making these that didn't work but when you use
slide the mouse or the pointer over the, the image.
The porn came out so that's just a little example of these disputes and small agencies within the platform that are not about changing the taste, but rather of incriminating it.
I would say, Hey, I know North Sea turtles work is in the Antelope Valley Philip Pullman owner, and the, the image of Santo Maldonado is part of one of his poems, which we included in the envelope here.
It's not the same because it's not Facebook, but he remediated, I think this same poem, or at least part of it. In another one, or maybe it's the same one.
I'm not sure.
So you can you can check this work in envelope here, the lead, volume, no, no.
So, is there any question in the chat possible.
Yes, poems in Facebook. Three the poems in Facebook.
Okay, so I'm not sure.
Chat. So yeah, we'll see ya know, smart things when they're so there. Okay.
So, I will have to read the chat now, but anyway. So, if there any more questions. I will like to thank you all very much. Because this is just one of the last panel.
Yellow conference.
2021, and they. Okay, I think we see you around somewhere.
I know these and difficult in this car yes but the thing is, passes away the car. Yes, Yes, or you can finish by noon in cages tobacco tobacco fit into usable by surprise.
Say, they'll probably my,
my bodies are practical and they asked at a casino Allah, don't drink process.
A Ebola down to Tampa discord in Florida, that amino acid in